*dokuvimki*   Plugin for editing DokuWiki pages via XML-RPC for Vim > 7.0

                    By Michael Klier <chi@chimeric.de>
        and Florian Rathgeber <florian.rathgeber+github@gmail.com>

                                                            *dokuvimki-plugin*

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OVERVIEW                                                  *dokuvimki-overview*

|dokuvimki-installation|        Installation instructions

|dokuvimki-configuration|       How to configure dokuvimki

|dokuvimki-commands|            Brief description of the available commands

|dokuvimki-buffer-mappings|     Description of the mappings available in the
                                special buffers

|dokuvimki-bugs|                Bug reports are always welcome ;-)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UPDATES                                                    *dokuvimki-updates*

The official releases can be found at:

    git: https://github.com/kynan/dokuvimki

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTALLATION                                          *dokuvimki-installation*

The recommended way to install DokuVimKi is via a Vim plugin manager like
`vim-plug` (https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) or `pathogen.vim`
(https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

For `vim-plug`, add the following to the vim-plug section of your `~/.vimrc`,
which enables the DokuVimKi plugin only when first connecting to a DokuWiki:

    Plug 'kynan/dokuvimki', {'on': 'DokuVimKi'}

For `pathogen.vim`, simply run the following:

    cd ~/.vim/bundle
    git clone git://github.com/kynan/dokuvimki

Alternatively, download the plugin and unpack it in your `~/.vim/` folder.

vim needs to be compiled with Python support
(http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/if_pyth.html), which should be the case
for most distributions e.g. `vim-gnome` or `vim-gtk` on Debian/Ubuntu.

The `dokuwikixmlrpc` (https://pypi.org/project/dokuwikixmlrpc) Python module
needs to be installed. Install it with:

    pip install dokuwikixmlrpc

Note that Vim will use the Python interpreter it was built with (if you have
not built Vim yourself this will be your system Python) and you will need to
install it for that interpreter. To use a virtualenv you need a Vim plugin
like `virtualenv.vim` (https://github.com/plytophogy/vim-virtualenv).

You'll also have to install a recent development version of DokuWiki
(https://dokuwiki.org) itself in order to use this plugin! For details on how
to setup XMLRPC for DokuWiki please refer to https://dokuwiki.org/devel:xmlrpc.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFIGURATION                                        *dokuvimki-configuration*

The following variables have to be present in your `~/.vimrc` in order to get
DokuVimKi working.

g:DokuVimKi_USER             The username used to login into the remote wiki.

g:DokuVimKi_PASS             The password used to login into the remote wiki.

g:DokuVimKi_PASS_EVAL        Call an external program to get the password.
                             E.g. GNU pass. 

g:DokuVimKi_URL              The URL of the remote wiki (no trailing slash!).

The following variables are optional and have a default:

g:DokuVimKi_HTTP_BASIC_AUTH  Use HTTP basic auth (default off). Set this to
                             anything but the empty string to enable.

g:DokuVimKi_INDEX_WINWIDTH   The width of the index window (default 30).

g:DokuVimKi_DEFAULT_SUM      Default summary used if no summary is given on
                             save. Defaults to [xmlrpc dokuvimki edit].
                             If you save pages using :w this is used as well
                             and will result in a minor edit.

A good idea is to outsource your DokuVimKi configuration. To do so, store your
settings in a seperate file like `~/.vim/dokuvimkirc`. You can increase
security be setting the file permission properly:

    chmod 600 ~/.vim/dokuvimkirc

To include this file in your `~/.vimrc` use following code:

    " Include DokuVimKi Configuration
    if filereadable("~/.vim/dokuvimkirc")
        source ~/.vim/dokuvimkirc
    endif

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMANDS                                                  *dokuvimki-commands*

:DokuVimKi                  Launches DokuVimKi with the options from above.

:DWedit <page>              Opens the given wiki page in the edit buffer. If
                            the page does not exist on the remote wiki it will
                            be created once you issue :DWSave. You can use
                            <TAB> to autocomplete pages. If the page doesn't
                            contain any ':' the page will be created in the
                            current namespace the index is showing.

:DWcd <namespace>           Change into a given namespace.

:DWsave <summary>           Save the wiki page in the edit buffer to the
                            remote wiki. If no edit summary is given it
                            will be saved as minor edit. You can also use :w
                            but it will not allow to specify a edit summary.

:DWbackLinks <page>         Loads a list of pages which link back to the given
                            wiki page into the edit buffer. If you are already
                            editing a page you can use the command without
                            supplying a wiki page and it will load a list of
                            backlinks to the page loaded in the edit buffer.
                            You can use <TAB> to autocomplete pages.

:DWrevisions <page> N       Lists the available revisions of a wiki page. You
                            can use an offset (integer) to view earlier
                            revisions. The number of shown revisions depends
                            on the $conf['recent'] setting of the remote wiki.
                            You can use <TAB> to autocomplete pages.

:DWsearch <pattern>         Searches for matching pages. You can use regular
                            expressions!

:DWmediasearch <pattern>    Searches for matching media files. You can use
                            regular expressions.

:DWchanges <timeframe>      Lists the recent changes of the remote wiki.
                            You can specify a timeframe:

                                Nd      show changes of the last N days
                                Nw      show changes of the last N weeks

:DWclose                    Closes the current edit buffer (removing edit
:DWclose!                   locks on the remote wiki etc.) - if the buffer
                            contains changes which haven't been synced back
                            to the remote wiki this command will issue a
                            warning.  You can also use :close which is setup
                            as abbreviation.

:DWdiffclose                Closes diff mode

:DWupload <file>            Allows to upload a file in the current namespace.
:DWupload! <file>

:DWquit                     Quits the current session and quits vim. This will
:DWquit!                    fail if there are unsaved changes.

:DWhelp                     Displays the DokuVimKi help.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EDIT-MAPPINGS                                        *dokuvimki-edit-mappings*

DokuVimKi mimics the functionality of DokuWikis edit toolbar to make it easier
to insert/edit wiki syntax. These mappings work only in insert mode:

    <C-D><C-B>  inserts bold syntax

    <C-D><C-I>  inserts italic syntax

    <C-D><C-U>  inserts underline syntax

    <C-D><C-L>  inserts link syntax

    <C-D><C-M>  inserts media syntax

    <C-D><C-K>  inserts code block syntax

    <C-D><C-F>  inserts file block syntax

    <C-D><C-H>  inserts a headline

    <C-I><C-P>  increases the current headline level by one

    <C-I><C-D>  decreases the current headline level by one

This mapping only works in normal mode:

    <C-]>       opens a link under the current cursor position for editing

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUFFER-MAPPINGS                                    *dokuvimki-buffer-mappings*

DokuVimKi comes with some specials mappings you can use in the special buffers
like the index or the recent changes view.


INDEX

    <ENTER>     Opens the page for editing, or lists the contents of the
                namespace under the cursor.

    b           Shows a list of the page linking back to the page under the
                cursor.

    r           Shows the revisions of page under the cursor.


REVISIONS

    <ENTER>     Opens the page revision for editing.

    d           Opens the diff view for the page and the revision under the
                cursor.


CHANGES

    <ENTER>     Opens the page revision under the cursor for editing.


SEARCH

    <ENTER>     Opens the page under the cursor for editing.


BACKLINKS

    <ENTER>     Opens the page under the cursor for editing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUGS                                                          *dokuvimki-bugs*

Please use the official bug tracker for feature requests of bug reports:
>
    https://github.com/kynan/dokuvimki/issues


If the bug is reproducible, then it will be of great help if a short
description of the events leading to the bug are also given ;-).

vim:tw=78:et:ts=4:ft=help:norl:
